OSDOCS-10730: NetObserv 1.8 CLI reference (#86824)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/network-observability-netobserv-cli-reference.adoc

// Automatically generated by './scripts/generate-doc.sh'. Do not edit, or make the NETOBSERV team aware of the editions.
:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE

[id="network-observability-netobserv-cli-reference_{context}"]
= Network Observability CLI usage

> You can use the Network Observability CLI (`oc netobserv`) to pass command line arguments to capture flows data, packets data, and metrics for further analysis and enable features supported by Network Observability Operator.

Reviewer: Should this have "the"?
```suggestion
You can use the Network Observability CLI (`oc netobserv`) to pass command line arguments to capture flows data, packets data, and metrics for further analysis and enable features supported by the Network Observability Operator.
```

Author: Yeah, it should.

> You can use the Network Observability CLI (`oc netobserv`) to pass command line arguments to capture flows data and packets data for further analysis, enable Network Observability Operator features or pass configuration options to the eBPF agent and `flowlogs-pipeline`.

Reviewer 2: Would it be worth to mention metrics here since we introduced these ?

I just realized that

Author: Yes that's true we should add metrics to this intro

Author: I can add it here; I know you already merged your upstream reference info.

Reviewer 2: I'll update our side according to your changes :wink: 
Thanks !

Author: changed this just to add "metrics" in the intro, @jpinsonneau

> You can use the Network Observability CLI (`oc netobserv`) to pass command line arguments to capture flows data and packets data for further analysis, enable Network Observability Operator features or pass configuration options to the eBPF agent and `flowlogs-pipeline`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can use the Network Observability CLI (`oc netobserv`) to pass command line arguments to capture flows, packets or metrics data for further analysis, enable Network Observability Operator features or pass configuration options to the eBPF agent and `flowlogs-pipeline`.
```

> You can use the Network Observability CLI (`oc netobserv`) to pass command line arguments to capture flows data and packets data for further analysis, enable Network Observability Operator features or pass configuration options to the eBPF agent and `flowlogs-pipeline`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can use the Network Observability CLI (`oc netobserv`) to pass command line arguments to capture flows, packets or metrics data for further analysis and enable features supported by Network Observability Operator.
```
I am not sure what does last sentence "or pass configuration options to the eBPF agent and `flowlogs-pipeline`." mean here.

Author: Ok I updated to this, since Julien 👍 .

[id="network-observability-netobserv-cli-reference_{context}"]
= Network Observability CLI usage

> You can use the The Network Observability CLI (`oc netobserv`) to pass command line arguments to capture flow data and packet data for further analysis, enable Network Observability Operator features or pass configuration options to the eBPF agent and flowlogs-pipeline.

Author: ```suggestion
You can use the The Network Observability CLI (`oc netobserv`) to pass command line arguments to capture flow data and packet data for further analysis, enable Network Observability Operator features or pass configuration options to the eBPF agent and `flowlogs-pipeline`.
```

| Show help.
|===

== Flows capture options

> Flow capture has mandatory commands as well as additional options, such as enabling extra features about packet drops, DNS latencies, Round-trip time, and filtering.
> .`oc netobserv flows` syntax

Author: ```suggestion
Flow capture has mandatory commands as well as additional options, such as enabling extra features about packet drops, DNS latencies, Round-trip time, and filtering.

.`oc netobserv flows` syntax
```

Author: Need a return here, otherwise the heading rendering is off: 
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/232f6721-b811-4d85-ab77-43688cdcced6)

|--node-selector|             capture on specific nodes                  | n/a
|--peer_ip|                   filter peer IP                             | n/a
|--peer_cidr|                 filter peer CIDR                           | n/a
|--port_range|                filter port range                          | n/a
|--port|                      filter port                                | n/a
|--ports|                     filter on either of two ports              | n/a
|--protocol|                  filter protocol                            | n/a
|--regexes|                   filter flows using regular expression      | n/a
|--sport_range|               filter source port range                   | n/a
|--sport|                     filter source port                         | n/a
|--sports|                    filter on either of two source ports       | n/a
|--tcp_flags|                 filter TCP flags                           | n/a
|--interfaces|                interfaces to monitor                      | n/a
|===

.Example running flows capture on TCP protocol and port 49051 with PacketDrop and RTT features enabled:
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc netobserv flows --enable_pkt_drop=true  --enable_rtt=true --enable_filter=true --action=Accept --cidr=0.0.0.0/0 --protocol=TCP --port=49051

Reviewer 2: indeed, that's not mandatory as true is the default value for these;
as same as -- prefix

Do you think we should get rid of these ?

> $ oc netobserv flows --enable_pkt_drop=true  --enable_rtt=true --enable_filter=true --action=Accept --cidr=0.0.0.0/0 --protocol=TCP --port=49051

Reviewer 3: I think so, it just shows simplified way of enabling these with fewer key strokes :)

> $ oc netobserv flows --enable_pkt_drop=true  --enable_rtt=true --enable_filter=true --action=Accept --cidr=0.0.0.0/0 --protocol=TCP --port=49051

Author: Okay, thanks guys. I removed them all instances of the `=true` globally

----
[id="cli-reference-packet-capture-options_{context}"]
== Packets capture options
You can filter packets capture data as same as flows capture using the filters.

> Note that the features, such as packets drop, DNS, RTT, and network events, are only available for flows and metrics capture.

Reviewer: Could "Note the..." be dropped? Something like:
```suggestion
Certain features, such as packets drop, DNS, RTT, and network events, are only available for flows and metrics capture.
```
or more directly:
```suggestion
The packets drop, DNS, RTT, and network events features are only available for flows and metrics capture.
```

Author: I like the former. I'll take it :)

|--icmp_type|             filter ICMP type                           | n/a
|--icmp_code|             filter ICMP code                           | n/a
|--peer_ip|               filter peer IP                             | n/a
|--drops|                 filter flows with only dropped packets     | false
|--regexes|               filter flows using regex                   | n/a
|--interfaces|            interfaces to monitor                      | n/a
|===

> .Example running flow capture on TCP protocol and port 49051 with PacketDrop and RTT features enabled:

Author: Another flow/flows question here.

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc netobserv flows --enable_pktdrop=true  --enable_rtt=true --enable_filter=true --action=Accept --cidr=0.0.0.0/0 --protocol=TCP --port=49051
----
== Packets capture options

> You can filter packet capture data as same as flow capture using the filters. However, the features are not available here.

Author: What does "The features are not available here" mean? I'm a little confused. There is the `--enable_filter` option in the Packets captures options.

> You can filter packet capture data as same as flow capture using the filters. However, the features are not available here.

Reviewer 2: The features (pkt drop, dns, rtt and network events) are only available for flows and metrics capture.
The packet capture will return an error if you try to enable these.

> You can filter packet capture data as same as flow capture using the filters. However, the features are not available here.

Author: Ahhh, I got it sorry about that. Its THE features, not the filter. Sorry. I was focused too much on the "However" modifying the "filter" part of the preceding sentence but its about the "same as flow capture", noting that the features available in flow capture aren't available here. I suggest we could say that more explicitly, like:  

> Note that the features, such as packet drop, dns, rtt, and network events, are only available for flows and metrics capture

> You can filter packet capture data as same as flow capture using the filters. However, the features are not available here.

Reviewer 2: Thanks works for me ! Thanks for the feedback. I will open a PR to adress all of these changes

> .`oc netobserv packets` syntax

Author: ```suggestion
.Example `oc netobserv packets` syntax
```

|--icmp_code|                 filter ICMP code                           | n/a
|--icmp_type|                 filter ICMP type                           | n/a
|--node-selector|             capture on specific nodes                  | n/a
|--peer_ip|                   filter peer IP                             | n/a
|--peer_cidr|                 filter peer CIDR                           | n/a
|--port_range|                filter port range                          | n/a
|--port|                      filter port                                | n/a
|--ports|                     filter on either of two ports              | n/a
|--protocol|                  filter protocol                            | n/a
|--regexes|                   filter flows using regular expression      | n/a
|--sport_range|               filter source port range                   | n/a
|--sport|                     filter source port                         | n/a
|--sports|                    filter on either of two source ports       | n/a
|--tcp_flags|                 filter TCP flags                           | n/a
|--interfaces|                interfaces to monitor                      | n/a
|===

> .Example running metrics capture for TCP drops:

Reviewer: No colon needed for block titles:
```suggestion
.Example running metrics capture for TCP drops
```

|--icmp_type|             filter ICMP type                           | n/a
|--icmp_code|             filter ICMP code                           | n/a
|--peer_ip|               filter peer IP                             | n/a
|--drops|                 filter flows with only dropped packets     | false

> |--regexes|               filter flows using regex                   | n/a

Author: Can we expand to regular expression?

|===

.Example running packet capture on TCP protocol and port 49051:
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc netobserv packets --action=Accept --cidr=0.0.0.0/0 --protocol=TCP --port=49051
----
== Metrics capture options

> You can enable features and use filters on metrics capture as same as flow capture. The generated graphs will fill accordingly.

Author: ```suggestion
You can enable features and use filters on metrics capture, the same as flow capture. The generated graphs fill accordingly.
```

> .`oc netobserv metrics` syntax

Author: ```suggestion
.Example `oc netobserv metrics` syntax
```
